COMS 3203 Discrete Mathematics Fall 2018Amazing Prime Numbers ProjectDue Monday, November 26thPlease submit your own original work.  Project assignments will be checked with robustplagiarism detection software used on all your submissions and code found online.  All codehas to be done in Python.  Please note, this is the first time we offer this assignment.  Wemay post modifications/clarifications to this homework as we hear your feedback.Be creative and have fun!The following assignment is about divisibility and prime numbers.  Every section requires that you writesome python code and report your results.  Besides submitting one python file, please submit a report thatanswers the questions below along with your observations and findings.  In one paragraph, please explain inyour report how you shared the workload in your team.1  Euclid’s algorithmEuclid Algorithm was invented by the Greek mathematician Euclid about 2,300 years ago.  The algorithmcalculates the greatest common divisor/factor (GCD) of two integers.  (Please refer to your lecture for moredetails about how and why it works).1.  Write a python function that implements the Euclid’s algorithm to calculate the GCD of two integers.2.  Now use your algorithm to calculate the gcd of several pairs, for example, GCD(4278, 8602), GCD(406,555), and GCD(244, 354).  Try large numbers.  Print all the steps taken by your algorithm and addthat to your report.3.  Report all your results in a table to show how the Euclid algorithm scales as we increase the numberof digits (Be ambitious in the number of digits).
2  How high can you go in generating prime numbers?We would like to study (later in this assignment) the distribution of primes.  For this, we need to generate avery large number of primes.1.  Write a python function that generates primes up to a certainnusing the Sieve of Eratosthenes.2.  Report all your results in a table to show how the sieve scales as we increase the number of digits (Beambitious in the number of digits).3  Primality testImplement three primality test functions using the two following approaches:1.  Trial division:  For an inputn, check if there is a prime number between 2 and√nthat dividesn.2.  Using Sieve of Eratosthenes.3.  Fermat little theoremBONUS.4.  Report all your results in a table to show how each method scales as we increase the number of digits(Be ambitious in the number of digits).4  Prime factorizationImplement a fast prime factorization algorithm using two ways:1.  Trial division.2.  Another faster method (example, the Pollard-Strassen method)BONUS.3.  Report all your results in a table to show how each method scales as we increase the number of digits(Be ambitious in the number of digits).5  Prime distributionNow, we are interested in calculating few statistics about prime number distribution.1.  Collect a prime number dataset, that is the list of prime numbers. Your dataset should have at least onemillion prime numbers.  You can either generate it with the functions you created above or downloadit.2.  Calculate the proportion of primes that ends with 1 (1 is the right digit)?  with 3?  with 7?  with 9?3.  Collect the following statistics in a table:(a)  Calculate the proportion of primes ending with 1 that are followed by primes ending with 1?  with3?  with 7?  with 9?(b)  Calculate the proportion of primes ending with 3 that are followed by primes ending with 1?  with3?  with 7?  with 9?(c)  Calculate the proportion of primes ending with 7 that are followed by primes ending with 1?  with3?  with 7?  with 9?(d)  Calculate the proportion of primes ending with 9 that are followed by primes ending with 1?  with3?  with 7?  with 9?4.  How many twin primes are there?5.  Letπ(x) representing the number of primes less thanx.  Using the data you collected, plotπ(x).Report all your observations in your report.
6  Prime visualization BONUSNow, we are interested in visualizing prime numbers.  Visualizing prime numbers has been a topic of interestfor a long time and there were several attempts to visualize as a spiral called Ulam Spiral, and other variants.Write a Python function that creates a compelling visualization of prime numbers.  You can be inspiredby existing prime visualizations but we encourage you to be creative and come up with your own.  Here arefew examples from the literature.By Grontesca at the English Wikipedia, CC BY-SA 3.0https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=1924394By Claudio Rocchini - Own work, thanks to www.numberspiral.comCC BY 2.5, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=22129127  Wrap it up in a MenuNow, create a menu prompting the user to use any of your functions.
